Kinematics is a subfield of physics, developed in classical mechanics, that describes the motion of points, bodies (objects), and systems of bodies (groups of objects) without considering the forces that cause them to move.
 Kinematics, as a field of study, is often referred to as the "geometry of motion" and is occasionally seen as a branch of mathematics.
  A kinematics problem begins by describing the geometry of the system and declaring the initial conditions of any known values of position, velocity and/or acceleration of points within the system.
   Then, using arguments from geometry, the position, velocity and acceleration of any unknown parts of the system can be determined. The study of how forces act on bodies falls within kinetics, not kinematics.
    For further details, see analytical dynamics.
Kinematics is used in astrophysics to describe the motion of celestial bodies and collections of such bodies.
 In mechanical engineering, robotics, and biomechanics kinematics is used to describe the motion of systems composed of joined parts (multi-link systems) such as an engine, a robotic arm or the human skeleton.
Geometric transformations, also called rigid transformations, are used to describe the movement of components in a mechanical system, simplifying the derivation of the equations of motion.
 They are also central to dynamic analysis.
Kinematic analysis is the process of measuring the kinematic quantities used to describe motion.
 In engineering, for instance, kinematic analysis may be used to find the range of movement for a given mechanism and working in reverse, using kinematic synthesis to design a mechanism for a desired range of motion.[8]
  In addition, kinematics applies algebraic geometry to the study of the mechanical advantage of a mechanical system or mechanism. 
Etymology of the term: The term kinematic is the English version of A.M. Ampère's cinématique, which he constructed from the Greek κίνημα kinema ("movement, motion"), itself derived from κινεῖν kinein ("to move").
Kinematic and cinématique are related to the French word cinéma, but neither are directly derived from it.
 However, they do share a root word in common, as cinéma came from the shortened form of cinématographe, "motion picture projector and camera," once again from the Greek word for movement and from the Greek γρᾰ́φω grapho ("to write").[12] 
The velocity of a particle is a vector quantity that describes the magnitude as well as direction of motion of the particle.
 More mathematically, the rate of change of the position vector of a point, with respect to time is the velocity of the point.
  Consider the ratio formed by dividing the difference of two positions of a particle by the time interval.
   This ratio is called the average velocity over that time interval and is defined as  V = Δ r /Δ t 
where Δ r is the change in the position vector during the time interval Δ t .
 In the limit that the time interval Δ t approaches zero, the average velocity approaches the instantaneous velocity, defined as the time derivative of the position vector, 
Acceleration  The velocity vector can change in magnitude and in direction or both at once.
 Hence, the acceleration accounts for both the rate of change of the magnitude of the velocity vector and the rate of change of direction of that vector.
  The same reasoning used with respect to the position of a particle to define velocity, can be applied to the velocity to define acceleration.
   The acceleration of a particle is the vector defined by the rate of change of the velocity vector. The average acceleration of a particle over a time interval is defined as the ratio.  A = ΔV/Δt
